Precision-Recall Curves are very widely
used evaluation method from machine
learning.
As we just saw in example,
the x axis shows precision and
the y axis shows recall.
Now an ideal classifier would be able
to achieve perfect precision of 1.0 and
perfect recall of 1.0.
So the optimal point would
be up here in the top right.
And in general, with precision recall
curves, the closer in some sense,
the curve is to the top right corner,
the more preferable it is,
the more beneficial the tradeoff it
gives between precision and recall.
And we saw some examples already of how
there is a tradeoff between those two
quantities, between precision and
recall, with many classifiers.
This example here is an actual precision
recall curve that we generated
using the following notebook code.
The red circle indicates the precision and
recall that's achieved when
the decision threshold is zero.
So I created this curve using
exactly the same method
as we saw in the previous example, by
looking at the decision function output
from a support vector classifier.
Applying very end decision boundary,
looking at how the precision of recall
change as the decision boundary changed.
Fortunately, learn has
a function that's built in
that does all of that, that could
compute the precision of recall curve.
And that's what we've been
using in the notebook here.
So you can see that in this
particular application
there is a general downward trend.
So as the precision of the classifier
goes up, the recall tends to go down.
In this particular case you'll see also
that It's not exactly a smooth curve.
There are some jaggy errors and, in fact,
the jumps tend to get a little bigger
as we approach maximum precision.
This is a consequence of how the formulas
for precision and recall are computed.
They use discrete counts that include
the number of true positives.
And so as the decision threshold
increases, there are fewer and
fewer points that remain
as positive predictions.
So the fractions that are computed for
these smaller numbers can
change pretty dramatically with small
changes in the decision threshold.
And that's why these
sort of trailing edges of
the Precision-recall curve can appear
a bit jagged when you plot them.
ROC curves or receiver operating
characteristic curves are a very widely
used visualization method that illustrate
the performance of a binary classifier.
ROC curves on the X-axis show
a classifier's False Positive Rate so
that would go from 0 to 1.0,
and on the Y-axis they show
a classifier's True Positive Rate so
that will also go from 0 to 1.0.
The ideal point in ROC space is
one where the classifier achieves
zero, a false positive rate of zero,
and a true positive rate of one.
So that would be the upper left corner.
So curves in ROC space represent
different tradeoffs as
the decision boundary, the decision
threshold is varied for the classifier.
So just as in the precision recall case,
as we vary decision threshold,
we'll get different numbers
of false positives and
true positives that we
can plot on a chart.
The dotted line here that I'm
showing is the classifier
curve that secretly results from
a classifier that randomly guesses
the label for a binary class.
It's basically like flipping a coin.
If you have two classes with equal numbers
of positive and negative incidences, then
flipping a coin will get you randomly
equal numbers of false positives and
true positives for
a large virus data sets.
So the dotted line here
is used as a base line.
So bad classifier will have
performance that is random or
maybe even worse than random or
be slightly better than random.
Reasonably good classifier will give an
ROC curve that is consistently better than
random across all decision
threshold choices.
And then an excellent classifier
would be one like I've shown here,
which is way up into the left.
This particular example is an example of
a logistic regression classifier using
the notebook example you've seen.
So, the shape of the curve
can be important as well,
the steepness of the curve,
we want classifiers that
maximize the true positive rate while
minimizing the false positive rate.
Now as we'll see next, we can
qualify the goodness of a classifier
in some sense by looking at how much
area there is underneath the curve.
So the area underneath
the random classifier
is going to be 0.5 but then the area,
as you can see, the size of
the bumpiness of the classifier as
it approaches the top left corner.
Well, the area underneath the curve
will get larger and larger.
It will approach 1.
And so, as we'll see in the next slide.
We use something called
area under the curve, AUC.
That's the single number that measures
this total area underneath the ROC curve
as a way to summarize
a classifier's performance.
So, an AUC of zero represents
a very bad classifier, and
an AUC of one will represent
an optimal classifier.